.\" Manpage for mcxcontest.
.\" Contact fangqq@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "08 February 2020" "v2021.2" "mcxcontest man page"
.SH NAME
mcxcontest \- benchmark your NVIDIA GPU hardware using MCX built-in tests
.SH SYNOPSIS
mcxcontest <option1> <option2> ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Monte Carlo eXtreme (mcx) is a CUDA-based GPU-accelerated 3D photon transport 
simulator developed by Dr. Qianqian Fang at the Computational Optics and 
Translational Imaging (COTI) Lab, at Northeastern University, Boston,
USA. More details regarding mcx can be found at http://mcx.space/

The `mcxcontest` script benchmarks your NVIDIA GPU using 3 built-in tests
in `mcx`, namely `cube60`, `cube60b` and `cube60planar`. By default, a total 
of 10^8 photons will be simulated and the running speed, in photon/ms, for 
each benchmark is reported. The final score of the GPU is the summation of
the 3 speed readings. The higher the score, the faster the GPU hardware.

This script is written in Perl. If utility `curl` is installed, it uses
`curl` to submit the hardware score to our database, should a user choose to
do so. If `curl` is not installed, mcxcontest requires `LWP::UserAgent` and 
`LWP::Simple` Perl modules to submit the user data.


.SH OPTIONS
The `mcxcontest` script can be executed without any parameter. This runs the
standard benchmark (10^8 photons) using the first GPU device (listd by `mcx -L`).

In addition, the following special parameters are supported:

.TP
\fB-l\fR
Use `-l` to download benchmark database from http://mcx.space/gpubench/ and compare
with your GPU results.

.TP
\fB-s\fR
Use `-s` to submit the benchmarks to our database at http://mcx.space/gpubench/

.TP
\fB-c\fR
Use `-c` to generate JSON formatted benchmark reports in the compact format.

.TP
\fB-o 'additional mcx parameters'\fR
Using `-o`, one can attach additional command line parameters to overwrite the 
default MCX benchmark parameters. Therefore, any standard parameters permitted by 
MCX is allowed to be used with this command.

.TP
\fB-L\fR
Use `-L` to list supported GPUs.

.TP
\fB-n <num>/-G <01>/-W <w1,w2,...>\fR
Use these parameters to adjust photon number (-n), which GPU to use (-G) and,
if multiple GPUs are used, ratios to split the workload (-W).

.TP
\fB--bin /path/to/mcx/binary\fR
Use --bin to manually specify the location of the mcx executable.

.TP
\fB--get URL_to_browse_database\fR
Use --get to set the database browse URL to a different location; the default MCX
GPU database URL is http://mcx.space/gpubench/

.TP
\fB--post URL_to_post_results_to_database\fR
Use `--post` to set the database submission URL to a different location; the 
default MCX GPU database URL is http://mcx.space/gpubench/gpucontest.cgi

.TP
\fB--help\fR
Print help information.


.SH SEE ALSO
mcx(7), mmc(7), mcxcl(7), mcxstudio(7), mcxshow(7), mcxviewer(7)
.SH AUTHOR
Qianqian Fang (q.fang@neu.edu)
