.\" Manpage for mcxstudio.
.\" Contact fangqq@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "08 February 2020" "v2021.2" "Monte Carlo eXtreme (MCX) Studio man page"
.SH NAME
MCXStudio \- a cross-platform GUI for managing MCX/MCXCL/MMC simulations
.SH SYNOPSIS
mcxstudio <-p project.mcxp> <-u/--user> ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
MCXStudio is a light-weight graphical user interface (GUI) for MCX, MMC and MCX-CL
(http://mcx.space). It gives user an intuitive environment to browse and set
parameters for a wide range of simulations. It also provides functionalities to
save, edit and reopen a set of pre-defined simulations and share among users.

The MCX//MCXCL/MMC simulators are developed by Dr. Qianqian Fang at the Computational 
Optics and Translational Imaging (COTI) Lab, at Northeastern University, Boston,
USA. More details regarding mcx/mmc can be found at http://mcx.space

MCXStudio is written in Object Pascal using the open-source Lazarus
(https://www.lazarus-ide.org/) rapid application development (RAD)
environment and LCL (Lazarus component library). The OpenGL rendering
of the GUI is provided by the GLScene Library (http://glscene.org).

MCXStudio is cross-platform and can run on Windows, Linux and Mac OS.
The GUI itself does not contain any Monte Carlo (MC) modeling capability. Instead,
it serves as a shell within which one can launch MC simulations by calling
externally compiled mcx, mmc and mcxcl binaries.

MCXStudio contains many features that are designed to ease the pre-processing,
simulation and post-processing for MC simulations. It is compatible
with mcx (NVIDIA GPU), mmc (CPU) and mcxcl (cross-vendor CPUs/GPUs). It has a built-in
domain designer, source designer with a convenient panel for media/detector settings.
It also supports visualization of simulation output data (mc2, nii, hdr/img) using
the built-in 3D volumetric data renderer. One can also launch remote MCX/MMC
simulations using the Remote Execution panel.


.SH HOW TO USE

Start MCXStudio by typing "mcxstudio" and enter in a terminal or click
on the "MCX Studio" icon in the system menu (under section Education\MCXStudio).

After being launched, mcxstudio first checks if the mcx
binary presents in the system search paths; if yes, the "GPU" button on the
toolbar becomes enabled. If you do not have an NVIDIA GPU and intend
to use mcxcl for your simulations, you may click on the "New" button
in the toolbar, and select the 3rd option (NVIDIA/AMD/Inte CPUs/GPUs MCX-CL).
After selecting "OK", and if mcxcl binary presents in your folders,
the GPU button will also become active.

It is recommended to click on the GPU button once, and verify if you have
compatible GPUs or processors suitables to run MCX or MCXCL simulations.
If you are able to see printed information in a message window, your system
is ready to run MCX (or mcxcl). If you get an error message or not able
to see any usable GPU, please check the drivers and the binary files.

If your system is verified to support MCX/MCXCL, you can now create new simulations
by clicking on the "New" button. MCX Studio will ask you to provide a session
name for this new simulation. After a valid session name is provide, MCXStudio
creates the simulation and set all parameters to a ready-to-run default configuration
(containing a 60x60x60 mm^3 homogeneous domain). You should modify the settings
based on your needs. Once you finish the adjustment, you should click the
"Verify" button to see if there are missing/conflicting settings. If everything looks
ok, the "Run" button will become activated. Clicking on it once will start your
simulation. If you want to abort the current simulation, you can click
the "Stop" button.

You can create multiple tasks with MCX Studio by hitting the "New"
button again. The information for all session configurations can
be saved as a project file (with a ".mcxp" file extension) by clicking the
"Save" button. You can load a previously saved project, containing multiple
simulation sessions, back to MCX Studio by clicking the "Load" button.

In both the unzipped binary packags of mcx and mcxcl, under the folder named
"examples", one can find a pre-created project file (*_examples.mcxp)
for MCXStudio. Loading these files using the "Load" button allows you to
see these preconfigured simulation.

On Windows, once you start MCXStudio once, the .mcxp suffix becomes automatically
associated with mcxstudio executable. To load a .mcxp file, you can simply
double-click on the file, mcxstudio will be started automatically.


.SH OPTIONS
MCX Studio is primarily used in an interactive mode. However, the below command
line options are accepted

.TP
\fB-p/--project  <A filename>\fR
Use -f to specify a default MCX project file (*.mcxp)
    -f filename.mcxp

If a .mcxp file is specified via the -p flag, mcxstudio loads this project file 
at start time.

.TP
\fB-u/--user\fR
.TP
Use `--user` to tell mcxstudio to store all user output files to the `~/MCXOutput`
directory where `~` represents user's home directory. You should use this command
when mcxstudio is installed via an automated installer and is located in a system
folder (such as `/usr/bin`).

If this flag is not provided while `mcxstudio` was installed in a system folder 
without write-permission, mcxstudio will attempt to create an output folder
named `MCXOutput` under the same parent folder as mcxstudio executable. If this
fails, it falls back to creating and writing outputs to `~/MCXOutput`. If 
`~/MCXOutput` can not be created or can not be written, mcx/mmc/mcxcl commands
will throw an error.


.SH SEE ALSO
mcx(7), mmc(7), mcxcl(7), mcxshow(7), mcxviewer(7)
.SH AUTHOR
Qianqian Fang (q.fang@neu.edu)
