.\" Manpage for photon.
.\" Contact fangqq@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 7 "08 February 2020" "v2021.2" "photon man page"
.SH NAME
photon \- a unified command line interface for running MCX/MMC photon simulations
.SH SYNOPSIS
photon <option1> <option2> ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Monte Carlo eXtreme (mcx) and Mesh-based Monte Carlo (mmc) are rigirously
validated, physically-accurate and GPU-accelerated 3D photon transport simulators.
The MCX/MMC simulators are developed by Dr. Qianqian Fang at the Computational 
Optics and Translational Imaging (COTI) Lab, at Northeastern University, Boston,
USA. More details regarding mcx/mmc can be found at http://mcx.space

To simplify running mcx/mmc simulations, we have created a unified graphical user 
interface (GUI) `mcxstudio`, and a unified command line interface `photon`.
The command `photon` is a perl script that automatically selects between 
`mcx` (CUDA-based), `mcxcl` (OpenCL based), and `mmc` (SSE4 CPU/OpenCL) based
on the following command line flags and input file data structures. In other
words, one can simply replace a command starting with `mcx`, `mcxcl` and `mmc`
by `photon` and photon runs the simulation according to a set of heuristics.


.SH OPTIONS
Running `photon` without any parameter prints the help information. 

If additional command line flags are used, `photon` by default treats the input 
flags in the format that are supported by `mcx`; however, `photon` further parses
the use simulation input file and flags, and determines if `mmc` or `mcxcl` 
should be used instead.

The supported options are fully compatible with those from MCX/MMC/MCXCL. Photon
determines which of the simulators among mcx/mmc/mcxcl based on a set of simple 
tests, the selected simulator and their conditions are listed below

.TP
\fBchoose mmc\fR
when the input .json file contains 'Mesh' or 'MeshID' elements
or when the input .inp file contains a mesh file stub without suffix in line#6
or when the input .inp file contains a single integer on line#7
or one of --method, --gridsize, --mc, --basisorder, -C, --compute, -c is used

.TP
\fBchoose mcxcl\fR
when input does not contain mesh data
and when one of --compileopt, -J, --optlevel, -o, --kernel, --showkernel is used
and mcx -L failed to list any CUDA devices

.TP
\fBchoose mcx\fR
when input does not contain mesh data, 
and when `mcx -L` outputs valid CUDA devices

.TP
\fB--mcx\fR
.TP
\fB--mcxcl\fR
.TP
\fB--mmc\fR

One can append --mcx, --mcxcl or --mmc to force `photon` to use the specified simulator.

.SH SEE ALSO
mcx(7), mmc(7), mcxcl(7), mcxstudio(7), mcxshow(7), mcxviewer(7)
.SH AUTHOR
Qianqian Fang (q.fang@neu.edu)
